srs_prototype1.md, before:

# Maderia
## Prototype 1
In the context of this document, the word "user" means a person who wants to see hotels and book rooms, "hotel" is just a hotel that has (or wants to have) an account in our system, and "client" is a general term used to refer to both users and hotels.

In addition to that, "username" means a unique identifier that a client chooses upon registration. 

In the context of this document, the word "function" is used to imply any process in general. It is not limited to the programming construct we normally call "function".

### User requirement specifications

1. The system should allow new clients to be registered.
2. The system should register clients in two categories: "Users" and "Hotels".
3. The system should allow registered clients to log in and log out.
4. The system should allow registered clients to delete their accounts.

### System requirement specifications
### General
1. The website will have 3 pages: the login page (one page for both users and hotels), a register page (one page for both users and hotels) and an index page.

#### The login functionality
1. The login page should be able to "switch" between the user-login mode and hotel-login mode. By switching, it is meant that the UI of the page changes, asking potentially different information when in the two modes. Also, the login page should send the login data to different end-points of the database depending on whether it's a user or a hotel that's logging in.
2. In user-login mode, the login page should ask for a username or email (written in the same input field) and a password of length >=6. In hotel-login mode, the loin page asks the same information as in the user-login mode (for this 1st prototype) but it will send the input data to a different endpoint of the back-end.
2. When a client requests the main (index) page of the website, the website should identify if the client is logged in or not and respond with the user login page (if the client is not logged in) or the main (index) page if the client is logged in. More about the index page later ...
3. Once a client is logged in, the website should remember the login session and not ask the client to log in again unless the client logs out. (even if the the browser tab is closed and re-opened).
4. while a client tries to log in, the website should be able to reject passwords that are less than 6 characters only with front-end logic (without sending the data to the back-end). As described in the "Register functionality" section, The website only accept password length >= 6 while registration. So if a client tries to log in with a password length < 6, The page should display an error message saying that the password can't be correct.
5. Clients should be able to use both their username or email (along with their password) to log into the website. Clients should enter their username or email into the same input field on the login page and the back-end code should know whether to use the data as a username or email based on the existance of the '@' symbol in the string.
6. The login page should be able to display a relevant error message when the username / email is not found among the registered users in the database or when the username / email is found but the password is incorrect. Displaying an error message in this case happens after sending the login data to the back-end and getting a response.
7. If the username / email and password sent from the login page to the back-end is all correct, The back end code should log the user in, send the index page as a response, and from that moment on, remember that the user is logged in on that browser until the user logs out. (i.e. if we close the browser or the browser tab and re open it and navigate to the website, it should know that we're logged in and respond with the index page, not the login page.)

#### The register functionality
1. The register page should be able to "switch" between user-register mode and hotel-register mode. In user-register mode, the page should ask for the full name of the user, a unique email of the user, a unique usernmame of the user. (neither the email nor the username should be registered before.), and a password that is at least 6 characters long. In hotel-login mode, instead of asking for a full name, the register page should ask for the name of the hotel (this should be unique too.)
2. The register page should send the registration data to different endpoints of the back-end demending on whether it's a user or a hotel that is registering.
3. There should be a password confirmation input field on the register page. We make sure the password and password confirmation fields have similar value (with client-side logic) before sending the data for the server to examine and register.
5. The register page should show relevant error messages when the password is less than 6 characters long (with front-end logic) or when the given username, email, or hotel name is already registered with some other account.
7. If the registration data sent from the register page to the back-end is all correct and valid, the back-end code registers the client, logs them in, and redirects them to the index page.
8. In the back-end code, when a client get's registered, the password should be hashed before it get's stored. The system should not store passwords in plain text. Later, every time a client enters their password to log in, the password they entered should be hashed with the same hash function and compared to the hash of the real password we stored in the database upon registration.
9. Users and hotels are different entities in the database. So they should be stored in their own separate tables upon registration.
10. For this prototype, (1st version) the database schema for the user and hotel entities depends on what data we collect while registering those two entities. (i.e. full name, username, email, password in user table and hotel name, username, email, password in hotels table).

#### The index page
1. The index page is a page that only logged in clients are supposed to see. The login functionality, upon successful login, should redirect to the index page and that should be the only way the index page can be accessed.
2. The index page should be mapped to (associated with) the root url of the website (which is "/").
3. An attempt to go to the index page directly (like entering the index page url in the browser) should trigger a back-end function that first checks if the client is logged in and redirects to the login page if the client is not logged. if the client is already logged in, such a function should dimply respond with the index page.
4. The index page, for this first prototype, should mostly be a blank page with the text "This is the index page. You are logged in as a [hotel/user] with username: [username]", with the elements in the angle brackets replaced with the real type (hotel/user) of the client and the real username of the client that's logged in. The index page should not be formatted with any front-end css code.
5. For the index page to contain information about the currently logged in client, the back-end code should pass (inject) that information into the index page. (maybe by using template tags or placeholders).
6. The index page should also contain a "logout" button that, when clicked, triggers the logout functionality in the back-end code. and a "delete account" button that triggers the account deletion function in the back-end code.

#### The logout functionality
1. the logout function at the back-end should be triggered by the "logout" button on the index page.
2. Once a client logs out, the back-end should identify any subsequent requests coming from that browser as not logged in. Thus, for example, requests for the index page will be redirected to the login page.

#### The delete account functionality
1. When clients press the "delete account" button on the home page, they should be presented with a warning message and asked to confirm their choice (with front-end logic).
2. If clients confirm their choice to delete their account, the index page should send the username of the client to a back-end function that first triggers the logut functionality and then removes the entry with the received username from the database tables.

Commit message:

changed the requirement specification for the first prototype so now it states the prototype should have profile pages where users and hotels can see and edit their profile information and passwords.

srs_prototype1.md, after:

# Maderia
## Prototype 1
In the context of this document, the word "user" means a person who wants to see hotels and book rooms, "hotel" is just a hotel that has (or wants to have) an account in our system, and "client" is a general term used to refer to both users and hotels.

In addition to that, "username" means a unique identifier that a client chooses upon registration. 

In the context of this document, the word "function" is used to imply any process in general. It is not limited to the programming construct we normally call "function".

### User requirement specifications

1. The system should allow new clients to be registered.
2. The system should register clients in two categories: "Users" and "Hotels".
3. The system should allow registered clients to log in and log out.
4. The system should allow registered clients to modify (edit) their profile information. 
4. The system should allow registered clients to delete their accounts.

### System requirement specifications
### General
1. The website will have 5 pages: the login page (one page for both users and hotels), a register page (one page for both users and hotels), the index page, user profile page and the hotel profile page.

#### The login functionality
1. The login page should be able to "switch" between the user-login mode and hotel-login mode. By switching, it is meant that the UI of the page changes, asking potentially different information when in the two modes. Also, the login page should send the login data to different end-points of the database depending on whether it's a user or a hotel that's logging in.
2. In user-login mode, the login page should ask for a username or email (written in the same input field) and a password of length >=6. In hotel-login mode, the loin page asks the same information as in the user-login mode (for this 1st prototype) but it will send the input data to a different endpoint of the back-end.
2. When a client requests the main (index) page of the website, the website should identify if the client is logged in or not and respond with the user login page (if the client is not logged in) or the main (index) page if the client is logged in. More about the index page later ...
3. Once a client is logged in, the website should remember the login session and not ask the client to log in again unless the client logs out. (even if the the browser tab is closed and re-opened).
4. while a client tries to log in, the website should be able to reject passwords that are less than 6 characters only with front-end logic (without sending the data to the back-end). As described in the "Register functionality" section, The website only accept password length >= 6 while registration. So if a client tries to log in with a password length < 6, The page should display an error message saying that the password can't be correct.
5. Clients should be able to use both their username or email (along with their password) to log into the website. Clients should enter their username or email into the same input field on the login page and the back-end code should know whether to use the data as a username or email based on the existance of the '@' symbol in the string.
6. The login page should be able to display a relevant error message when the username / email is not found among the registered users in the database or when the username / email is found but the password is incorrect. Displaying an error message in this case happens after sending the login data to the back-end and getting a response.
7. If the username / email and password sent from the login page to the back-end is all correct, The back end code should log the user in, send the index page as a response, and from that moment on, remember that the user is logged in on that browser until the user logs out. (i.e. if we close the browser or the browser tab and re open it and navigate to the website, it should know that we're logged in and respond with the index page, not the login page.)

#### The register functionality
1. The register page should be able to "switch" between user-register mode and hotel-register mode. In user-register mode, the page should ask for the full name of the user, a unique email of the user, a unique usernmame of the user. (neither the email nor the username should be registered before.), and a password that is at least 6 characters long. In hotel-login mode, instead of asking for a full name, the register page should ask for the name of the hotel (this should be unique too.)
2. The register page should send the registration data to different endpoints of the back-end demending on whether it's a user or a hotel that is registering.
3. There should be a password confirmation input field on the register page. We make sure the password and password confirmation fields have similar value (with client-side logic) before sending the data for the server to examine and register.
5. The register page should show relevant error messages when the password is less than 6 characters long (with front-end logic) or when the given username, email, or hotel name is already registered with some other account.
7. If the registration data sent from the register page to the back-end is all correct and valid, the back-end code registers the client, logs them in, and redirects them to the index page.
8. In the back-end code, when a client get's registered, the password should be hashed before it get's stored. The system should not store passwords in plain text. Later, every time a client enters their password to log in, the password they entered should be hashed with the same hash function and compared to the hash of the real password we stored in the database upon registration.
9. Users and hotels are different entities in the database. So they should be stored in their own separate tables upon registration.
10. For this prototype, (1st version) the database schema for the user and hotel entities depends on what data we collect while registering those two entities. (i.e. full name, username, email, password in user table and hotel name, username, email, password in hotels table).

#### The index page
1. The index page is a page that only logged in clients are supposed to see. The login functionality, upon successful login, should redirect to the index page and that should be the only way the index page can be accessed.
2. The index page should be mapped to (associated with) the root url of the website (which is "/").
3. An attempt to go to the index page directly (like entering the index page url in the browser) should trigger a back-end function that first checks if the client is logged in and redirects to the login page if the client is not logged. if the client is already logged in, such a function should dimply respond with the index page.
4. The index page, for this first prototype, should mostly be a blank page with the text "This is the index page. You are logged in as a [hotel/user] with username: [username]", with the elements in the angle brackets replaced with the real type (hotel/user) of the client and the real username of the client that's logged in. The index page should not be formatted with any front-end css code.
5. For the index page to contain information about the currently logged in client, the back-end code should pass (inject) that information into the index page. (maybe by using template tags or placeholders).
6. The index page should also contain a "logout" button that, when clicked, triggers the logout functionality in the back-end code. and a "delete account" button that triggers the account deletion function in the back-end code.

#### The logout functionality
1. the logout function at the back-end should be triggered by the "logout" button on the index page.
2. Once a client logs out, the back-end should identify any subsequent requests coming from that browser as not logged in. Thus, for example, requests for the index page will be redirected to the login page.

#### The user profile page and user profile editing
1. There should be 2 profile pages: one for users and one for hotels. These pages should be accessible only for logged in clients. If a client that's not logged in requests the profile page, the back-end should redirect to the login page.
2. When a logged in client requests the profile page, the back-end code should check if the client is logged in as a user or a hotel and redirect to the appropriate page based on that.
3. On the user profile page, users can see their full name and username. They also have the option to edit these information. The back-end code should be able to receive a request to edit the user profile on some end-point and service the request. If the newly changed username or email is already registered, the back-end should respond with the profile page again, but this time, with a relevant error message.
4. On the user profile page, there should also be the option to change the current password of the user. To change the current password, the user should input the current password, the new password and the confirmation for  the new password. This data will be sent to an endpoint of the back-end (different from the edit profile end-point) where the current password gets validated and if valid, replaced with the new password. The front-end logic of the profile page should make sure the password length >= 6 rule before sending the data to the back-end. If the current password sent along with the new password is incorrect, the back-end should respond with the profile page again, but this time, with a relevant error message.

#### The hotel profile page and hotel profile editing
1. The hotel profile page will be very similar in appearance and operation with the user profile page. hotels should see their hotel name and username on the hotel profile page. They should also have the option to change these information and submit. The back-end should have an end-point that receives edit profile requests and services them. If the new hotel name or username is already registered, the back-end should respond with the profile page again, but this time with a relevant error message.
2. There should also be the option to change the current password of the hotel account on the hotel profile page. In order to change the current password, a hotel should enter the old password, the new password and the confirmation for the new password. The front-end logic should enforce that the length pf the passwords >=6 and that the new password and the confirmation are identical.
3. The back-end should have an endpoint (different than the 'edit hotel profile' endpoint) that receives and services password change requests. If the old password the hotel entered is valid, the endpoint replalces it with the new password. if the old password is invalid, the endpoint should respond with the hotel profile page again, but this time with a relevant error message.



#### The delete account functionality
1. When clients press the "delete account" button on the home page, they should be presented with a warning message and asked to confirm their choice (with front-end logic).
2. If clients confirm their choice to delete their account, the index page should send the username of the client to a back-end function that first triggers the logut functionality and then removes the entry with the received username from the database tables.
